REQ-ID: 6
Description: The product shall be intuitive for the receptionists to use efficiently.
Type: Both Usability and Performance.
Rationale: The receptionists have complained that the existing paper-based appointments system is inefficient, which indicates they place a high degree of importance on the efficiency of the appointments system they have to use, and therefore if the system is not efficient enough, it is unlikely that they will want to continue to use it.
Fit Criterion: 90% of patients shall have their next appointment scheduled at a time and date they are happy with within two minutes of approaching the reception desk after coming out of their appointment. The average time to complete this task as well as the task of rearranging appointments and the task of adding notes to patient records using the new system will be reduced by at least 25% from the average time to complete these tasks using the existing paper-based appointments system.
(Assumptions: The stakeholders recognise that certain circumstances, such as a therapist being busy or unavailable, or a difficult patient, will render it impossible to always satisfy all patients, with some leaving without making another appointment. However, in the majority of cases, for which the stakeholders have agreed a value of 90% is acceptable, scheduling of the next appointment should be reasonably quick. Two minutes was chosen as a reasonable upper bound to prevent a queue forming at reception. The stakeholders also agreed a 25% reduction in time to complete tasks using the new system as opposed to the existing system as a reasonable expectation given the inefficiency of the existing paper-based appointments system.)
Originator: Receptionists (non-specific as stated by Neil).
Comments: [SB] Added non-functional requirement 6.
[JD] The Fit Criterion specifies one aspect of a broad requirement - booking repeat appointments. It does not quantify how the Receptionists find using the system to be more efficient in 
areas such as rearranging appointments over the phone, adding notes to patients records or running reports. Would there be a benefit in having more criteria to how one would measure an
increase of efficiency for each task carried out on the system?
[TB] Yes having an efficiency criteria would be useful, a standard measure of the time to book in paper versus time to book using the computer system for instance
[SB] I agree with the comments and I have expanded the fit criterion to specify a 25% reduction in time to complete this task as well as the task of rearranging appointments and the task of adding notes to patient records using the new system compared to using the existing paper-based appointments system. I don't think reports can be produced using the existing system so I haven't included mention of this as there would be nothing to compare against.
